***************
DAngeloE+5-2013
***************


Notes about :cite:`DAngeloE+5-2013` :footcite:`DAngeloE+5-2013`.


.. footbibliography::


This paper has data about of grannule cells and Golgi cells in rat cerebellum.
p. 9:

Quantitative Golgi Cell Connection Scheme

On the basis of current knowledge it is possible to generate a
quantitative connection scheme for the Golgi cell, which is unique
both for its high level of precision and for the quantity of available
experimental data.  Using morphological measurements, it can be
calculated that the rat cerebellar granular layer has a cell density
of 4 × 10^6/mm^3 for granule cells and 9300/mm^3 for Golgi cells, with
a Golgi cell : granule cell ratio of 1:430 (Korbo et al., 1993).
Moreover, the density of the glomeruli is 3 × 10^5/mm^3, and each
glomerulus is composed of one mossy fiber terminal, about 53 dendrites
from separate granule cells (Jakaband Hamori, 1988), and one or more
dendrites from Golgi cells.  Network connections can be reconstructed
by applying simple rules, most of which can be directly extracted from
original works on cerebellar architecture (e.g., see Eccles et al.,
1967).

Granule cell connection rules are quite simple and can be summarized
as follows: granule cell dendrites cannot reach glomeruli located more
than 40 μm away (meanden dritic length : 13.6 μm) and a single granule
cell cannot send more than one dendrite into the same glomerulus.
Conversely, Golgi cell connection rules are more complex.  It can be
assumed that only one Golgi cell axon enters a glomerulus, forming
inhibitory synapses on all the afferent granule cell dendrites, and
that a Golgi cell axon entering a glomerulus cannot access the
neighboring glomeruli if they share granule cells with the first one.
This should prevent a granule cell from being inhibited twice by the
same Golgi cell (see above and Solinas et al., 2010).  Each Golgi cell
can inhibit as many as 40 different glomeruli and atotal of about 2000
granule cells, accounting for the 1:430 Golgi cell:granule cell ratio
and the aforementioned convergence and divergence ratios (see above).
Recent calculations seem to indicate a specific organization of
excitatory connectivity.  Golgi cells were suggested to receive
excitatory inputs from about 40 mossy fibers on basal dendrites
(Kanichay and Silver, 2008). Moreover, a specific organization is
emerging for granule cell inputs through the ascending axons and
parallel fibers (Cesana et al., 2010).  Golgi cells could receive
about 400 connections from the ascending axons of local granule cells
on the basal dendrites and another 400 connections through the
parallel fibers of local granule cells, which would provide the basis
for a powerful feedback circuit.  In addition, Golgi cells receive
about 1200 parallel fiber contacts on the apical dendrites from
transversely organized granular layer fields.  It has been calculated
that the effectiveness of local granule cells is about 10 times
greater than that of an equivalent population located outside the
direct afferent field and forming only parallel fiber contacts toward
the Golgi cell.
